Okay.
So I like what we added in the previous lesson.
But there are some limitations to using an is primary prop with a value of true or false.
For one, it's only limited to two possible values.
So imagine that our action button decides to have a third style.
It'll have a primary, a secondary, and potentially a third tertiary style of.
Yes.
Well, now our approach will no longer work because is primary can only provide either value a true
or a false.
And it has no way of indicating a third value, a tertiary value.
So I'm curious if we can try a different design and we'll do that in this lesson.
So once again, let's start with what I call wish driven development, which means writing out the code
that we wish we had.
So imagine instead of passing in and is primary prop.
Imagine I deleted all of this right here.
Imagine we had a single prop here called type.
And for tight we can pass in a string.
And that string would specify the type of action button that we would want to render.
For example, I might render a primary action button, and if I wanted a secondary action button, I
would provide a type of secondary.
And if I wanted a third type of action button, I would provide a type of tertiary.
Or in another world where we have, for example, not types like primary and secondary, but types like
success button or warning button or info button.
We get several similarly passed in a type with a string specifying the type of button that we would
like to render.
So a couple of things to note here.
If I were to decide to use a prop like type notice here that our value is a string and that string is
supposed to be a string, either primary or secondary or whatever we want.
So we no longer need to use the V bind direct.
We do not need to provide that colon syntax or use the V bind keyword literally because for a string,
a string being passed to a prop as a value, we do not need that dynamic binding.
We can just pass it in like so.
So that takes care of it on our parent component level.
But obviously we need to update our action bind component to react to this change.
And the reason I think this this approach that we're going to follow is going to be a little bit better
is because it's going to allow us to clean up some of our action button code.
So let's begin here in action button.
We now need to modify this props array to tell action button what props it can expect it's no longer
going to receive and is primary prop, but it will receive a type prop, the exact name we chose right
here.
And now you'll notice we have our data method and we'll have our computed property.
Well, as I mentioned in the previous lesson, we can use our props in either the body of the data object
or within our computed properties.
And the way that we're setting things up now is a little bit roundabout because we're setting a primary
data key based on the value of the prop, and then we're using that data key of primary to set this
configuration object for our success.
But there's nothing stopping us from using any prop within our computed properties.
And I would argue we don't actually need anything from data because we'll be able to reference this,
that type within our computed property and figure out the kind of styles we should apply.
Let me show you how this is going to work.
So the first thing I'm going to do is remove data entirely.
And that, of course, would break computed as it currently stands because this type primary does not
exist.
But instead of using this that primary, we can reference this that type, which is not a boolean value,
it is a string.
However, we can turn it into a boolean value by doing a simple equality comparison.
So if I compare the value of type with a string like primary, then I'm going to evaluate here to a
boolean.
Okay?
So what I'm going to do here, you might think that I want to add a comparison check here of this that
type not equal to primary, but I'm actually going to do a different approach and I'll talk to you a
little bit about why I think it's a better approach.
In a second.
I'm going to write out this that type.
Equals secondary.
So I'm going to assume there's one of two values that the action button can be provided for the type
prop.
It can be either primary or secondary.
But the beautiful part about this design is if we want to add a third type like tertiary or error or
whatever, we can simply add it on as another key in this button class with its own check.
So this approach will actually work and let's talk about how it would work.
So in this scenario, on the left hand side, we're passing in a type prop with a value of primary.
That means view is now going to calculate the computed property based on the value of the type prop
no longer the primary data key, just the type prop, which is totally fine.
And if the value of the prop changes by the way, in other words, if the parent component of main now
somehow swaps this value and passes in something different, then the computed property would re-evaluate
or rerun the same way it does with your data properties.
So in this scenario, we're passing in a type of primary, which means this is going to value to true
and this is going to go to false.
And that's exactly what we want.
We're going to apply the primary season class if the type is primary.
Conversely, if the user passes in a string of secondary here, these two will be flipped around.
This is going to value to false and the string secondary will be equal to secondary.
So this will add value to true.
So now we're going to have the secondary styles applied instead, and we can scale this if we want to
add a third style or a third just as class down the road.
So let me remove these comments and we'll take a look at this in our browser.
So we're going to start off with our type of primary.
And just as we expect when I navigate that back to my browser, let me refresh the page.
We're going to see our primary star right here.
If I click on my action button component in my view DevTools, you'll see we are passing in a prop of
type with a value of primary.
We no longer have any data on an action by any component, but we are still using the computed properties
to calculate this JavaScript object that's applied to our button.
Once again, why are we using computed here instead of data?
Well, because computed is intended for derived values.
And just because where our our data source is different now, our data source is our prop, it doesn't
change the core reason for why computed properties exist, which is to make derived data data that is
based off another piece of data.
Our core independent data here is this type prop of primary.
It exists separately from everything else.
In comparison, this button class computed property is dependent on what type is so it is computed.
It is derived.
Therefore, it makes sense to put this logic in the computed properties of the action button component.
So this works exactly as you might expect.
And then if I go back to my browser or my code editor rather, and I change this to secondary, make
sure to spell that correctly all lowercase.
And if I look at this page now, we're going to have the secondary style.
That's great.
And of course, action button will have a different value for the type prop, which will cause a different
computed property of button class, which will apply a different case class of secondary, which will
lead us to this button version.
All right.
So this is, I think, a little bit of a cleaner approach because we now don't have a data property,
but it's the same principle in action, right?
We're passing in some kind of data or input from our parent component of main NAV to our child component
at action button.
Whenever you need to pass that kind of data or information from the parent to the child, usually to
customize how the child works, either looks or works or what it renders for those types of use cases,
we use props.
All right.
That's all there is to cover in this lesson.
So I will see you in the next one.